---
foam_template:
  name: Methods
  filepath: 'docs/methods/zonal-statistics.md'
tags: [data, ADDTAGS]
---

# Zonal statistics

#TODO

Is an aggregate to remote sensing data (often raster data) by a [[vector-data]] polygon, such as a country or administrative region. It is often used to summarize the characteristics of a region based on remote sensing data.

## Why is it relevant?

Zonal statistics are relevant because they allow for the analysis of spatial patterns and relationships within a defined area. This can help in understanding land use, environmental changes, and resource distribution, among other applications.

## Examples

[[population-data]], such as [[global-human-settlement]], can be used to calculate zonal statistics for population density, land cover, or other demographic characteristics at the [[vector-data]] level.

-   [Global Human Settlement Layer (GHSL)](https://ghsl.jrc.ec.europa.eu/) provides population density data that can be used for zonal statistics.


## Checklist: remove when finished

- [ ] Description of the method
- [ ] Why is it relevant?
- [ ] Examples with hyperlinks to the data
- [ ] Reproducible examples and how to start using it
      - [ ] Link to the data source
- [ ] Documentation sources
- [ ] References


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[vector-data]: ../data/vector-data.md "Vector data"
[population-data]: ../data/population-data.md "Population data"
[global-human-settlement]: ../data/global-human-settlement.md "Global Human Settlement"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"